README.md, before:

# PGP Keyserver Site Source

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mattrude/pgpkeyserver) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/blob/master/LICENSE) [![GitHub tag](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/tags) [![GitHub commits since](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/v0.2.0.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/compare/v0.1.1...master) [![Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/issues) [![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2017.svg)](http://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver)

This repsitory holds the source for a [SKS PGP Key Server](https://sks-keyservers.net/) website similer to [keyserver.mattrude.com](http://keyserver.mattrude.com).  This is only the HTML source code for the supporting documention site for the PGP server, not the PGP Keyserver software used on the server.

## Jekyll

[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) is a static site generator built in [Ruby on Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/). With this approach, you are able to build a high power build site, using a low power, very stable webserver running a static site.

Jekyll is not needed on the webserver, updates must be done by a build system, from this source repository, then sent to the webserver.

### Updating the site

First change into the source directory of the site, once in, update via

    jekyll build

A simple script would be

    rm -rf /var/src/pgpkeyserver && mkdir -p /var/src/ && \
    git clone git@github.com:mattrude/pgpkeyserver.git /var/src/pgpkeyserver -q && \
    cd /var/src/pgpkeyserver && jekyll build -q && rm -rf /var/src/pgpkeyserver

## Installing the server

### Nginx Configuration

    #----------------------------------------------------------------------
    # OpenPGP Public SKS Key Server
    #----------------------------------------------------------------------

    # keyserver.mattrude.com
    server {
        listen 80;
        listen [::]:80;
        listen <set your IP>11371;
        listen [set your IPv6 IP]:11371;
        server_name keyserver.mattrude.com;
        server_name pool.sks-keyservers.net;
        server_name *.pool.sks-keyservers.net;
        server_name pgp.mit.edu;
        server_name pgp.ipfire.org;
        server_name keys.gnupg.net;
        root /var/www/keyserver.mattrude.com;

        rewrite ^/stats /pks/lookup?op=stats;
        rewrite ^/s/(.*) /pks/lookup?search=$1;
        rewrite ^/search/(.*) /pks/lookup?search=$1;
        rewrite ^/g/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/get/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/k/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/key/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/d/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&options=mr&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/download/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&options=mr&search=$1;

        location /dump {
            alias /var/www/sks-dump;
            autoindex on;
            autoindex_exact_size off;
            add_before_body /nginx-before.txt;
            add_after_body /nginx-after.txt;
        }

        location /pks {
            proxy_pass         http://127.0.0.1:11371;
            proxy_pass_header  Server;
            add_header         Via "1.1 keyserver.mattrude.com:11371 (nginx)";
            proxy_ignore_client_abort on;
            client_max_body_size 8m;
        }
    }


### Installing Jekyll
Since Jekyll only needs to be installed on your build system. Below are a few quick how-to's how setting up your build system.

#### Installing Ruby on Ubuntu
On Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, you first need ruby installed on your setup, we will also install the development kit.

    apt-get update; apt-get install -y git g++ ruby ruby-dev

Next install the needed gems and Jekyll

    gem install rails
    gem install rouge
    gem install kramdown
    gem install therubyracer
    gem install jekyll
    gem install jekyll-press
    gem install jekyll-sitemap
    gem install jekyll-less
    gem install jekyll-redirect-from
    gem install jekyll-last-modified-at

Now you may use Jekyll to build the site, using the source provided in this repository.

#### Installing Ruby on Windows
First start out by downloading the current production version of the [Ruby Installer](http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/) for windows.

##### Installing the Ruby Development Kit
After installing Ruby via the [Ruby Installer](http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/) talked about above, you must now download the Development Kit.

1. Download the Development Kit from http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/
1. Extract the contact into a location easy accessible to your command prompt.
1. Open a command prompt, change into the directory that you extracted the content of the Development Kit to and run the command: `rake devkit sfx=1`.

## License

                  GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                    Version 3, 29 June 2007

    OpenPGP Key Server Website for keyserver.mattrude.com
    Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Matt Rude <matt@mattrude.com>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

README.md: Add link to pgpkeyserver-lite

README.md, after:

# PGP Keyserver Site Source

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mattrude/pgpkeyserver) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/blob/master/LICENSE) [![GitHub tag](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/tags) [![GitHub commits since](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/v0.2.0.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/compare/v0.1.1...master) [![Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/mattrude/pgpkeyserver.svg)](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver/issues) [![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2017.svg)](http://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver)

This repsitory holds the source for a [SKS PGP Key Server](https://sks-keyservers.net/) website similer to [keyserver.mattrude.com](http://keyserver.mattrude.com).  This is only the HTML source code for the supporting documention site for the PGP server, not the PGP Keyserver software used on the server.

If you are building your own sks-keyserver, and would like to diplay a nice frontend for it, please look at the [pgpkeyserver-lite](https://github.com/mattrude/pgpkeyserver-lite) project for a simple frontend site.

## Jekyll

[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) is a static site generator built in [Ruby on Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/). With this approach, you are able to build a high power build site, using a low power, very stable webserver running a static site.

Jekyll is not needed on the webserver, updates must be done by a build system, from this source repository, then sent to the webserver.

### Updating the site

First change into the source directory of the site, once in, update via

    jekyll build

A simple script would be

    rm -rf /var/src/pgpkeyserver && mkdir -p /var/src/ && \
    git clone git@github.com:mattrude/pgpkeyserver.git /var/src/pgpkeyserver -q && \
    cd /var/src/pgpkeyserver && jekyll build -q && rm -rf /var/src/pgpkeyserver

## Installing the server

### Nginx Configuration

    #----------------------------------------------------------------------
    # OpenPGP Public SKS Key Server
    #----------------------------------------------------------------------

    # keyserver.mattrude.com
    server {
        listen 80;
        listen [::]:80;
        listen <set your IP>11371;
        listen [set your IPv6 IP]:11371;
        server_name keyserver.mattrude.com;
        server_name pool.sks-keyservers.net;
        server_name *.pool.sks-keyservers.net;
        server_name pgp.mit.edu;
        server_name pgp.ipfire.org;
        server_name keys.gnupg.net;
        root /var/www/keyserver.mattrude.com;

        rewrite ^/stats /pks/lookup?op=stats;
        rewrite ^/s/(.*) /pks/lookup?search=$1;
        rewrite ^/search/(.*) /pks/lookup?search=$1;
        rewrite ^/g/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/get/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/k/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/key/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/d/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&options=mr&search=$1;
        rewrite ^/download/(.*) /pks/lookup?op=get&options=mr&search=$1;

        location /dump {
            alias /var/www/sks-dump;
            autoindex on;
            autoindex_exact_size off;
            add_before_body /nginx-before.txt;
            add_after_body /nginx-after.txt;
        }

        location /pks {
            proxy_pass         http://127.0.0.1:11371;
            proxy_pass_header  Server;
            add_header         Via "1.1 keyserver.mattrude.com:11371 (nginx)";
            proxy_ignore_client_abort on;
            client_max_body_size 8m;
        }
    }


### Installing Jekyll
Since Jekyll only needs to be installed on your build system. Below are a few quick how-to's how setting up your build system.

#### Installing Ruby on Ubuntu
On Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, you first need ruby installed on your setup, we will also install the development kit.

    apt-get update; apt-get install -y git g++ ruby ruby-dev

Next install the needed gems and Jekyll

    gem install rails
    gem install rouge
    gem install kramdown
    gem install therubyracer
    gem install jekyll
    gem install jekyll-press
    gem install jekyll-sitemap
    gem install jekyll-less
    gem install jekyll-redirect-from
    gem install jekyll-last-modified-at

Now you may use Jekyll to build the site, using the source provided in this repository.

#### Installing Ruby on Windows
First start out by downloading the current production version of the [Ruby Installer](http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/) for windows.

##### Installing the Ruby Development Kit
After installing Ruby via the [Ruby Installer](http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/) talked about above, you must now download the Development Kit.

1. Download the Development Kit from http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/
1. Extract the contact into a location easy accessible to your command prompt.
1. Open a command prompt, change into the directory that you extracted the content of the Development Kit to and run the command: `rake devkit sfx=1`.

## License

                  GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                    Version 3, 29 June 2007

    OpenPGP Key Server Website for keyserver.mattrude.com
    Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Matt Rude <matt@mattrude.com>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
